The Joe Rogan experience. And now they're telling,
they're watching these they're these influencers, which is another thing,
you know,
you have these trans influencers and they promise these girls that if they just
go on ti everything will get better. And the problem,
okay. So why do they a couple of reasons? So one is,
um, testosterone has certain good effects,
so it delivers a euphoria and it D it suppresses
anxiety and anxiety is one of their biggest problems.
So they go on it and they feel great and they can't wait to tell their friends.
It makes their period go away and it redistributes fat.
So now these girls feel like I just beat puberty. I feel amazing.
I want to tell everybody how great I feel. And they are brave.
All of a sudden they're braver and socially Boulder. The problem is of course,
what they don't like to talk about online is all the really dangerous stuff that
comes with testosterone too. Like it leads to heart, uh, infertility,
like risk of cardiovascular attack. You know, a heart attack,
risk of heart attack was way up, um, there's, uh, you know, body, hair,
facial hair don't really want that. So.
I think facial hair for.
For now, but it's permanent. You know, a lot of this stairs permanent can be.
So what.
But what about when trans women, when a man transitions to a woman,
don't they lose a lot of their.
Body hair, so they lose some of it, but some of them are, I mean,
everybody's different,
but some of them are stuck with a five o'clock shadow for life. How.
Does a kid know whether they are someone who's being easily
influenced and someone who is giving into this anxiety,
and you are a part of the way you're describing it,
a contagion amongst your friends versus someone who's genuinely trans,
like someone who genuinely is born in the wrong body.
We have a hundred year diagnostic history of gender dysphoria.
We know what it is. It's not guesswork.
We know that it has in this whole history.
It typically presents in early childhood ages.
Two to four is when we see it starting. And it was overwhelmingly boys,
little boys who say, no, mommy, I'm not a boy. I'm a girl. Call me a girl.
Only want to play with other girls. Only want to do, you know,
play with girl toys in the, sometimes they hate their sexual organ. I mean,
sometimes, you know, it's a severe persistent, insistent, consistent feeling.
Um, and then a lot of them would grow out of it.
And some of them wouldn't and they would become what we used to call
transsexuals. Um, now we're seeing an explosion of young women,
you know,
suddenly deciding they're trans with their friends and they are doing it in
friend groups. They'll have a whole friend group of trans kids. They are,
you know, doing it after social media, emerging,
transgender adults never did it because of social media.
And it certainly never won them friends.
Hmm.
Um, so what about women that were trans, like you say,
predominantly it's it's boys wanted to be girls, right.
But what about girls who wanted to be boys.
That existed too? And that also typically began in early childhood. Um,
and most, most of these kids have left alone would outgrow it.
So D gender dysphoria is something that, you know, most, most kids,
if they, even if they experienced the real thing will outgrow and some won't.
Yeah. I was reading an article about gender dysphoria.
They were talking about it. First of all, even saying gender dysphoria,
I think is hate speech. Now.
It's in the DSM. There's the whole DSM hate speech. Yes.
Okay. But do you know what I.
Mean? To me, like everything's hate speech. Um, cause people are gone.
They've gone so wacky, but they were talking about, um, uh, there was, uh,
a study done on men who experienced gender
dysphoria at a young age and then transitioned to become gay and just
be just became gay, just were gay.
And they realized like this was just a part of their process and they're happy
as a gay man and they didn't transition.
That's very typical. Most of these,
most of these kids would emerge as homosexual.
That's the thing is this, like,
if we're cool with people being trans and we are obviously we, I mean,
especially adults, Y w you know,
w w why is it better?
Do we like this idea that if you just leave them alone, they become gay men?
Or would we, I mean,
how many of them would be trans if they were encouraged in that direction?
How many of them are they happier this way or that way? Like, there are very,
this is a very human problem. And by human problem, I mean,
there's not really a good answer there,
human problems are slippery problems where it's like, you're developed, like,
particularly you're talking about young people. They're,
we're hijacking their development. You're, you're deciding, okay.
If you made a decision, you know what you're gonna do forever. All right.
We're going to jump in now and we're going to stop your reproductive cycle.
We're going to jump in now and introduce hormones that were never in your body,
and we're going to, well, they're a little bit tiny, tiny amounts.
We're going to Jack it up to the roof, like Hulk Hogan. And you're, you're,
you're going to be a different person now.
And I sh I hope you can make this decision at 17,
that will affect the rest of your life. I hope you're,
you're mentally capable of doing that. And that's a tall order. It's.
A tall order, and there's no medical oversight right now. There's no matter.
I mean,
we have no idea what longterm testosterone use does to a female's body at 10 to
40 times what her body would normally have. Okay. We don't know,
we can talk about the risks, but we don't know,
but it's not presented to people as a highly experimental medicine, which it is.
It's not reviewed by an institutional review board. They,
they make it sound like it's something you can just sign a waiver for and no big
deal. Why is that?
Why is there no review? Why, why is there no oversight?
Why is this so free and loose? I mean, is it a sign?
Is it a good sign that we're like more progressive now, more open-minded.
And because of that,
things have gotten a little slippery in terms of what we celebrate and what we
should rationally step back and objectively analyze and say, Hey,
is this really the right way to handle this?
I think one of the things that happened was in 2012 w
path, which is the transgender health, you know, uh,
organization, um, worldwide organization, um,
change to an informed consent model saying that people should be able to get
the drugs they want, or, you know,
claim to need on based on their own recognizance,
you sign a form you're aware of the risk, and then you get it.
And the problem was maybe they felt that there was too much gate-keeping as they
call it or too much questioning. They felt, you know,
that there were people who weren't getting the medical care, they, they needed.
The problem was you had 18.
And the age of medical consent varies by state in Oregon is 15. It varies.
And you hit that age. You can, you can get it. You walk out the door with.
That 15. Yeah. That's crazy.
You don't even fully form personnel and you don't. Oh my God.
We were talking before we got on the air, um, about, uh, children,
like really young children transitioning.
You were saying that most people who transitioned no,
when they're very young, um, that is a real,
uh, that's a hot button topic for people, children,
and hormone blockers and children. I,
what I keep going to is if you are a woman and you, you know,
you're a woman,
why do you need to get these hormones injected into your body? Why,
why can't you just be a woman? Oh, I'll call you a woman. Like, what,
w what are we doing with all these hormones? Like, why are we complete? Like,
imagine you're a person who says I need to
transition to be a woman.
And I know that I need a chemical that I've never had in my body before.
And if I get that chemical injected, then I'm going to be happy.
And if I get surgery, then I'm going to be happy.
This is what I'm supposed to be. Right. So.
The big problem with this is that you're making all the decisions that normally
a doctor would make. Right? And any other area of medicine,
a doctor makes that they say, hold on, I know you think you need, you know,
whatever an opioid, but just relax. Let's see what your, you know,
I mean, that's, you know, effectively what co you know,
what facilitated the opioid crisis.
Doctors just handing over the prescription pad.
And we're seeing that right now with anybody who claims to have gender
dysphoria, they get it. They, they self-diagnose. They say, no, no, no.
I know it's my problem. They don't have a mental health professional who says,
well, wait a second, hold on. You have very high anxiety, depression.
You have a lot of other mental health stuff going on.
Let's deal with that first,
any therapist who dares to say that might violate one of the 19 conversion
laws we now have in 19 different states. There's 19. Can I think it's 19. Yeah.
Which bands converge so-called conversion therapy, even on gender identity,
which means that therapists could lose our license. If they say, hold on,
I know you want to transition.
I know you think your problem is gender dysphoria.
Let's talk about some of your other problems.
Wow. So a therapist,
if you're a 15 year old kid and you come to a therapist and you say all my
friends are going trans, and I think I'm trans too.
The doctor has to essentially go with you on this little path you're
on. Um.
The doctors feel that they have to, I mean, the American,
the number of association, American medical association, um, endocrine society,
I mean, you name an American pediatric society. You know,
all these medical professional organizations,
most of them have adopted affirmative care,
which means their job is to affirm the patient's self-diagnosis with regard to
this one issue. I mean, they're there, you know,
it's turning doctors into I don't life coaches, right? I mean,
they're how much time.
Have we been doing this for how long was the time period when this really
started to escalate in the.
Last decade, we've seen it fly across the west. I mean, it's in Canada,
UK, you know, Scandinavia, we're seeing numbers across the west.
All of a sudden it's teenage girls.
It's the very same girls who spread every other, you know,
contemporary history or every other hysteria.
Boy, it makes you feel like there's a lot of lawsuits coming.
I wouldn't be surprised. I mean, these dogs,
these girls are getting these things so easily and they're 15, they're 16 or 17.
They're 18.
How many did you interview when you were doing this book?
Um, so I conducted almost 200 interviews. Um,
so how many teenage girls or specifically? I actually don't know.
I interviewed a lot, a lot of people and, uh,
and a bunch of adolescent girls as well, and 10 more than 20, more than 10,
but I don't know. I have to have, uh, like spreadsheets for this. Um.
Did you interview ones that were happy with the transition? Yeah. Yeah.
Um, you know, still very young, but I, you know, um,
I interviewed influencers and I interviewed, um,
parents and I interviewed adolescent girls and some of these girls have,
you know, stayed with their transition and claim to be happy. Um,
maybe they are some of them, but the problem is, if you ask,
if you find out objective things about their lives, right.
Are you still in school or did you drop out or did you cut off your family or
did you not, do you have friends? What's your social life? Like?
What's your job? Do you have a regular job? Very often. The picture is,
is a dark one. It's not a good one. Well, isn't.
That just the case of a lot of people in general though. I mean,
especially people that have the kind of problems that they have to begin with
and they make this gigantic decision, right? The question is,
did this decision of transitioning help or hurt?
And where would they be if they didn't,
you were talking about them before saying they were already in a dark place.
They're already awkward teenagers, the kind of girls who cut themselves,
kind of girls who were prone to anorexia witchcraft. This is you're,
you're dealing with someone that doesn't have a rosy future already.
Right. But I think we used to call that an angst, teenage angst. I mean,
they got past it. The problem is, yeah, you're right. Not everyone,
but now they're getting, they're getting prescriptions.
They're changing the whole course of their lives so easily with no medical
oversight. What kind of numbers.
Are we talking about? Like how many people are doing this? Okay. Okay.
So the numbers are harder to track in the United States because we don't have
centralized medical care. Um, and here,
but here are the numbers that I can tell you. Okay. So gender dysphoria,
you used to afflict 0.01% of the population. So one in 10,000 people.
So probably no one you went to high school with,
but today we already know that 2% of high school students are identifying as
transgender and 2% of high school students.
You're talking about 1.1 million teenage, you know,
high school kids in America.
2%. And when did this happen? Yeah, really most of them are grown. Most.
Of them are girls really well. I mean the number,
we can just look at the number of gender surgeries. Um, and we see that in 2060,
between 2016 and 2017,
the number of gender surgeries for biological females quadrupled.
So we know they are the biggest and fastest growing population.
Wow. Two.
That's a stunning number 2% you go from, oh,
0.1% of the whole population,
the whole population to 2% high schoolers.
And the vast majority of them are teenage girls. Yeah. What, what,
what is the majority like we talked about 80%. Like what is the number?
But most of them are teenagers for every indication. I mean, we know that,
you know, I can give you a bunch of other statistics.
One of the reasons it's hard to know exactly how many aside from the fact that
we don't have a centralized control of this is because you don't need a,
an actual diagnosis of gender dysphoria to get testosterone.
So you just go in and get it. You don't need the diagnosis in England where you,
where you have a centralized medical care and there you do need a diagnosis.
They know that the numbers are for T for adolescent. Girls are up over 4000%.
Holy. Yeah.
So you knew all this stuff before you wrote the book,
this was all the numbers that.
Came out in the course of writing it. Yeah. Some of.
That had to kind of affirm your idea that this was a real problem. I.
Mean, everywhere, I looked, it seemed to be a real problem. It wasn't,
and nobody wanted to talk about it, but it's real.
Well, it's just because like, even when we're talking about it, I'm like, oh,
here's a landmine. Oh, here's a landline. Like everything. We're saying, like,
if you talk at all about trans people, um,
you run the risk of people off and offending people and
staying out, you know, you're, you're, you're,
you're going into an area where it's,
unless you are 100% in support of their
decision and their rights and you, you, you celebrate them.
You're going to get in real trouble.
Right.
But that's why we have this problem because nobody will talk about it because
parents will call me and say,
I I've been pro LGBTQ my whole life.
I just don't think this is right for my daughter.
I can't even talk to my friends about it.
I'll get fired from a job if anybody finds this out. But my daughter's not,
she's got a lot of problems, but gender dysphoria is not one of them. Like,
I don't think this is right. And I don't think it's going to cure.
It. And if you have to work and you're at work all day, you know,
how much time do you have to even convince your daughter,
your daughter's with her wacky friends, eight hours a day.
And she's on the internet. And the problem is her school.
Her school's already filled out a form calling her Jimmy right. For a year.
They don't even tell you, Ooh,